This course homepage is accessible from http://www.cs.ust.hk/~dlee/4321/
COMP 4321 Search Engines for Web and Enterprise Data [3-0-1:3]

Spring 2017
Course and Instructor/TA Information

Instructor:
Prof. Dik Lun Lee
Email:
dlee@cse.ust.hk
Office:
3534 (Lift 25/26)
Office Hours:
Tue/Wed 10:45am-11:45am * Emails are the best way to get quick response from me. If you want to meet and cannot make the office hours, try to make an appointment with me by email.

Lectures:
Tue/Wed 9am - 10:20am
Lecture Room:
Rm 1103, Academic Concourse

TA:
Huan ZHAO (hzhaoaf@ust.hk)

Xun JIAN (xjian@ust.hk)
Lab LA1:
Monday 9:30am - 10:20 am, Rm 4214 (Lift 19)
Lab LA2:
Monday 1:30pm – 2:20pm, Rm 4214 (Lift 19)
Labs/Project page

Feb 20
Lab 1 JDBM

Feb 27
Lab 2 HTML Parser

Mar 6
Lab 3 Stemming and Stopword Removal

Mar 13
Lab 4 JavaServer Page (JSP)

Project: Description

Detailed Course Topics [Use comp4321 as both user-ID and Password]

Grading Scheme:


Release
Due
Weight
Homework 1 here, solution marks
Feb 23
 Mar 2
8%
Homework 2 here new!
Apr 25
May 4
12%
Mid term marks
Mar 21 (in lecture)
15%
Project Phase 1
Mar 30
5%
Project Phase 2
May 1
20%
Final Exam
Check University Website
40%
Total


100%
Bonus points (project)


3%
Bonus points (class participation)


1%
Highest possible score


104%

Notes:
l   Labs carries no weight; the labs’ purpose is to help you do the project
l   Phase 1 must be submitted to the TA as specified in the requirements. Failing to submit Phase 1 will result in your getting a zero score in your entire project, i.e., you don't just lose the 5% scores assigned to the phase.
l   Sample mid-term and final papers (Use them ONLY as a reference for the style of the questions. Actual coverage and depth are different for different years; the actual paper is likely to be a little more difficult than these samples)
Course Grade Assignment

Course grades will normally fall within the following percentage bands:

A 15%
B 40%
C 40%
D/F 5%

There is no particular distribution within the subgrades of a grade but can be assumed to be equally divided.

How is bonus considered?

Grades are first assigned to all students according to the distribution above without considering bonus points. Thresholds between subgrades are set. Then, bonus points are added to students. A student’s grade will be re-assigned (moved up) according to his/her new score. The end result is that students who do not have bonus points will not be penalized by other students having bonus points.
Open-book Exams
Both the mid-term and final exams are open book. You can bring your lecture notes (slides and notes) and one book to the exam venue. While you do not need to memorize everything (formula and pseudo code, etc.) by heart, the examinations are set assuming you know the materials well. That is, the notes/slides are there to help you with “is my cosine similarity formula correct?” and “if the PR formula 1-p… or p – 1 …” etc., but flipping through the slides page by page to find the answer of a question would waste too much time. At the end you do not have enough time to finish all of the questions. Bear in mind that you still need to study hard!
Course Outcome

On successful completion of this course, students are expected to be able to:
(1)
Design and implement a complete and functional search engine.
(2)
Test and evaluate the effectiveness of a search engine.
(3)
Identify the limitations of search engine technologies and develop solutions to meet application requirements.


Course Outline

1.   Introduction and course overview
6.     Retrieval effectiveness, benchmarking
2.   Business models
7.     Document preprocessing
3.   Information retrieval models and Inverted Files
8.     Query expansion and relevance feedback
4.   Web-based information retrieval
9.     Document clustering
5.   Pattern matching and extended Boolean model
10.  Signature files
Text and Reference Materials

Course Description
Text retrieval models, vector space model, document ranking, performance evaluation; indexing, pattern matching, relevance feedback, clustering; web search engines, authority-based ranking; enterprise data management, content creation, metadata, taxonomy, ontology; semantic web, digital libraries and knowledge management applications.
Course Objective

After completing the course, students will have acquired:
Core techniques for building search engines
Technologies and business models employed in modern web-based search engines
Hands-on experience in building a complete web-based search engine including spider, data storage and search modules
Knowledge in the future trends and applications of information retrieval Web and Enterprise applications and digital libraries.
Pre-requisites/Background needed: COMP 151/151H (prior to 2009-10) or COMP 171/171H (prior to 2009-10) or COMP 2012/2012H

Policy on Academic Misconduct

Homework/lab assignments must be done individually. Collaboration between students is strictly forbidden. Any violation will be passed to the Department's Undergraduate/Postgraduate Studies Committee for assessment. The result may lead to dismissal from the University.
Term project must be done by the individual group. No sharing of code and copying of code from previous projects are allowed.
 
